In 1957, second-grader Bryce Loski moves in across the street from Julianna "Juli" Baker.
When they look into each other's eyes, Juli knows it’s love, but Bryce is put off by her and
tries to avoid her.
Four years later, Juli is still completely enamored and rarely leaves Bryce alone.
Bryce tries everything to get rid of Juli, including dating Sherry Stalls, one of the most popular
girls in school, whom Bryce knows Juli dislikes. This does nothing to deter Juli, plus Bryce's best
friend Garrett takes an interest in Sherry and tells her why Bryce is dating her, so Sherry dumps him.
Bryce looks forward to seventh grade as he hopes that with a larger student body Juli will finally meet
someone else.
The following year Chet Duncan, Bryce's grandfather, moves in with the
family. Juli falls in love with an old sycamore tree, but one day she discovers the tree is going
to be cut down. Juli tries to prevent it from being removed by climbing the tree and refusing to
come down. After much attention from the town, her father Richard convinces her to come out of the
tree, and it is cut down, leaving Juli almost inconsolable. Later, Richard gives her a painting of
the tree, which helps her overcome her distress, and her exploits are written about in the local paper.
Juli raises chickens in her back yard as part of a school project and soon finds them laying eggs,
which she sells to their neighbors but gives to Bryce as a gesture. However, Juli is hurt when she
finds out Bryce has been throwing away the eggs she offered, out of fear of salmonella due to the
state of their yard. Embarrassed, Juli decides to fix up the yard. After reading about Juli in the
paper, Chet helps her with her yard work and develops real affection for her, saying Juli reminds
him of his late wife. When traditional and house proud Steven, Bryce's father, criticizes the state
of the Baker home and their apparent lack of care for their property, Chet confides that the family
doesn't own their home, devoting most of their finances to caring for Juli's mentally-disabled uncle
Daniel, the property is supposed to be cared for by their landlord. As Chet spends more time with Juli
and encourages Bryce to be more open-minded